docs/index.md, before:

# Overview

`loadtest` is a general-purpose HTTP load-testing and benchmarking library.

Docs can be found here [https://wesslen.github.io/loadtest/](https://wesslen.github.io/loadtest/).

# Setup

You can install the package via `pip`:

```
pip install "loadtest @ git+https://github.com/wesslen/loadtest"
```

For the development, run:

```
$ git clone https://github.com/wesslen/loadtest.git
$ python3.10 -m venv venv
$ source venv/bin/activate
(venv) $ pip install -e .
```

This repo was developed using Python 3.10 and Mac/Unix. It has not yet been tested on different Python versions and OS (e.g., Windows).

# Execute

```
(venv) $ python -m loadtest

┏━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━┳━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━┓
┃ Metric               ┃ Value                 ┃
┡━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━╇━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━┩
│ URL                  │ https://fireworks.ai/ │
│ Total Requests       │ 100                   │
│ Failed Requests      │ 0                     │
│ Median Latency       │ 0.3541 seconds        │
│ 75% Latency          │ 0.4154 seconds        │
│ 95% Latency          │ 0.6565 seconds        │
│ 99% Latency          │ 0.7993 seconds        │
└──────────────────────┴───────────────────────┘
```

Since `loadtest` is a `typer` function, you may use `--help` to provide simple docs:

```
(venv) $ python -m loadtest --help
                                                                                                            
 Usage: python -m loadtest [OPTIONS]                                                                                    
                                                                                                            
 Simple HTTP benchmarking tool.                                                                                         
╭─ Options ────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────╮
│ --url                       TEXT                             The URL to benchmark. [default: https://fireworks.ai/]  │
│ --num-requests              INTEGER                          Total number of requests to perform. [default: 100]     │
│ --method                    TEXT                             HTTP method to use. [default: GET]                      │
│ --concurrency               INTEGER                          Number of concurrent requests. [default: 1]             │
│ --install-completion        [bash|zsh|fish|powershell|pwsh]  Install completion for the specified shell.             │
│                                                              [default: None]                                         │
│ --show-completion           [bash|zsh|fish|powershell|pwsh]  Show completion for the specified shell, to copy it or  │
│                                                              customize the installation.                             │
│                                                              [default: None]                                         │
│ --help                                                       Show this message and exit.                             │
╰──────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────╯
```

# Tests

Next, you may modify the load test matrix by modifying the file `loadtest/test_config.json`:

```json
{
    "endpoints": [
      "https://jsonplaceholder.typicode.com/comments",
      "https://jsonplaceholder.typicode.com/todos"
    ],
    "request_types": ["GET", "POST"],
    "payload_sizes": [100, 500, 1000],  
    "concurrency_levels": [1, 10, 50, 100]
  }
```

By default, I'm using these ranges. You would want to adjust these values to reflect realistic scenarios for the application being tested.

I also used `jsonplaceholder`'s default API's as dummy endpoints. You would want to change these to reflect the endpoint you want to test.

```zsh
# from the root
(venv) $ python -m loadtest.run_tests full
Executed 1 GET requests to https://jsonplaceholder.typicode.com/comments with payload size 100 bytes in 0.23 seconds.
Executed 10 GET requests to https://jsonplaceholder.typicode.com/comments with payload size 100 bytes in 1.71 seconds.
...
```

Alternatively, you may run a fractional by running:

```zsh
# from the root
(venv) $ python -m loadtest.run_tests fractional 0.5
Executed 1 GET requests to https://jsonplaceholder.typicode.com/comments with payload size 100 bytes in 0.23 seconds.
Executed 50 GET requests to https://jsonplaceholder.typicode.com/comments with payload size 500 bytes in 8.53 seconds.
...
```

This test will print results to console as well as save results as a `.csv` file in `loadtest/data` with a timestamped named.

```zsh
(venv) $ python -m loadtest.run_tests --help
                                                                                                                                                                            
 Usage: python -m loadtest.run_tests [OPTIONS]                                                                                                                                 
                                                                                                                                                                            
 Executes a series of load tests based on configurations defined in a JSON file, allowing for either full or fractional testing. The script     
 generates a test matrix from the configuration, runs the tests as per the matrix, and saves the results to a CSV file.                                                                                                              
                                                                                                                                                                            
╭─ Options ────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────╮
│ --design-type               TEXT                             The design type of the test matrix: 'full' or 'fractional'. [default: full]                                 │
│ --fraction                  FLOAT                            The fraction of the test matrix to use, required only if design_type is 'fractional'. [default: None]       │
│ --install-completion        [bash|zsh|fish|powershell|pwsh]  Install completion for the specified shell. [default: None]                                                 │
│ --show-completion           [bash|zsh|fish|powershell|pwsh]  Show completion for the specified shell, to copy it or customize the installation. [default: None]          │
│ --help                                                       Show this message and exit.                                                                                 │
╰──────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────╯
```

# Visualizing Tests

You may run a streamlit app to visualize the results by running:

```
(venv) $ python -m streamlit run loadtest/visualize_results.py
```

![](img/streamlit.png)

Within the app, you can select options based on:

1. the file (timestamp of the run)
2. endpoint
3. type of request: `GET` vs. `POST`
4. y axis metric: `Duration` (in seconds) or `Failures`

Commit message:

update to pass config file to run_tests

docs/index.md, after:

# Overview

`loadtest` is a general-purpose HTTP load-testing and benchmarking library.

Docs can be found here [https://wesslen.github.io/loadtest/](https://wesslen.github.io/loadtest/).

# Setup

You can install the package via `pip`:

```
pip install "loadtest @ git+https://github.com/wesslen/loadtest"
```

For the development, run:

```
$ git clone https://github.com/wesslen/loadtest.git
$ python3.10 -m venv venv
$ source venv/bin/activate
(venv) $ pip install -e .
```

This repo was developed using Python 3.10 and Mac/Unix. It has not yet been tested on different Python versions and OS (e.g., Windows).

# Execute

```
(venv) $ python -m loadtest

┏━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━┳━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━┓
┃ Metric               ┃ Value                 ┃
┡━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━╇━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━┩
│ URL                  │ https://fireworks.ai/ │
│ Total Requests       │ 100                   │
│ Failed Requests      │ 0                     │
│ Median Latency       │ 0.3541 seconds        │
│ 75% Latency          │ 0.4154 seconds        │
│ 95% Latency          │ 0.6565 seconds        │
│ 99% Latency          │ 0.7993 seconds        │
└──────────────────────┴───────────────────────┘
```

Since `loadtest` is a `typer` function, you may use `--help` to provide simple docs:

```
(venv) $ python -m loadtest --help
                                                                                                            
 Usage: python -m loadtest [OPTIONS]                                                                                    
                                                                                                            
 Simple HTTP benchmarking tool.                                                                                         
╭─ Options ────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────╮
│ --url                       TEXT                             The URL to benchmark. [default: https://fireworks.ai/]  │
│ --num-requests              INTEGER                          Total number of requests to perform. [default: 100]     │
│ --method                    TEXT                             HTTP method to use. [default: GET]                      │
│ --concurrency               INTEGER                          Number of concurrent requests. [default: 1]             │
│ --install-completion        [bash|zsh|fish|powershell|pwsh]  Install completion for the specified shell.             │
│                                                              [default: None]                                         │
│ --show-completion           [bash|zsh|fish|powershell|pwsh]  Show completion for the specified shell, to copy it or  │
│                                                              customize the installation.                             │
│                                                              [default: None]                                         │
│ --help                                                       Show this message and exit.                             │
╰──────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────╯
```

# Tests

Next, you may modify the load test matrix by modifying the file `loadtest/test_config.json`:

```json
{
    "endpoints": [
      "https://jsonplaceholder.typicode.com/comments",
      "https://jsonplaceholder.typicode.com/todos"
    ],
    "request_types": ["GET", "POST"],
    "payload_sizes": [100, 500, 1000],  
    "concurrency_levels": [1, 10, 50, 100]
  }
```

By default, I'm using these ranges. You would want to adjust these values to reflect realistic scenarios for the application being tested.

I also used `jsonplaceholder`'s default API's as dummy endpoints. You would want to change these to reflect the endpoint you want to test.

```zsh
# from the root
(venv) $ python -m loadtest.run_tests full
Executed 1 GET requests to https://jsonplaceholder.typicode.com/comments with payload size 100 bytes in 0.23 seconds.
Executed 10 GET requests to https://jsonplaceholder.typicode.com/comments with payload size 100 bytes in 1.71 seconds.
...
```

Alternatively, you may run a fractional by running:

```zsh
# from the root
(venv) $ python -m loadtest.run_tests fractional 0.5
Executed 1 GET requests to https://jsonplaceholder.typicode.com/comments with payload size 100 bytes in 0.23 seconds.
Executed 50 GET requests to https://jsonplaceholder.typicode.com/comments with payload size 500 bytes in 8.53 seconds.
...
```

This test will print results to console as well as save results as a `.csv` file in `loadtest/data` with a timestamped named.

```zsh
(venv) $ python -m loadtest.run_tests --help
 Usage: python -m loadtest.run_tests [OPTIONS]                                                                                                  
                                                                                                                                                
 Executes a series of load tests based on configurations defined in a JSON file, allowing for either full or fractional testing. The script     
 generates a test matrix from the configuration, runs the tests as per the matrix, and saves the results to a specified output directory.       
                                                                                                                                                
╭─ Options ────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────╮
│ --config-path               TEXT                             The path to the configuration JSON file. [default: loadtest/test_config.json]   │
│ --data-dir                  TEXT                             The directory where the output results will be saved. [default: loadtest/data]  │
│ --design-type               TEXT                             The design type of the test matrix: 'full' or 'fractional'. [default: full]     │
│ --fraction                  FLOAT                            The fraction of the test matrix to use, required only if design_type is         │
│                                                              'fractional'.                                                                   │
│                                                              [default: None]                                                                 │
│ --install-completion        [bash|zsh|fish|powershell|pwsh]  Install completion for the specified shell. [default: None]                     │
│ --show-completion           [bash|zsh|fish|powershell|pwsh]  Show completion for the specified shell, to copy it or customize the            │
│                                                              installation.                                                                   │
│                                                              [default: None]                                                                 │
│ --help                                                       Show this message and exit.                                                     │
╰──────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────╯

```

# Visualizing Tests

You may run a streamlit app to visualize the results by running:

```
(venv) $ python -m streamlit run loadtest/visualize_results.py
```

![](img/streamlit.png)

Within the app, you can select options based on:

1. the file (timestamp of the run)
2. endpoint
3. type of request: `GET` vs. `POST`
4. y axis metric: `Duration` (in seconds) or `Failures`
